#### Software-design-ideas

Building software is harder then ever, as a software developer one had to understand changing technological trends but also needs to understand the business domain for which technologies are applied for the problem at hand.  In my experience as a software developer it is not uncommon for us to develop software for diverse range of business domains like financial systems, industrial automation software, medical software, aviation software, online retailers, etc. Making sense of new business domains can be far more challenging for developer. Failure to grasp the business domain results in suboptimal implementation of the business software.

When we first start building a new system, we have grand ideas that our code will be clean and well ordered, but over time we find that design and code run out of sync, missing dead lines, misunderstood requirements, etc to name a few.
To handle complexity of software development (i.e., automate business process) various design techniques, process has been developed and evolved over time like domain driven design (DDD), behavioural driven design (BDD), test driven design (TDD), extreme programming, agile development process, micro service architecture, service oriented architecture, domain specific design patterns like netwrok design patterns, real time design patterns, safety design patterns, security patterns, continious integration, continious deployment, etc to name a few.  unfortunately even after applying these various technqiues projects are still failing. One of the main reason for project failing is lack in communication. Communication issues thwarting projects can manifest themselves in different ways; for example, unclear requirements, uncertain project goals, or ineffective coordination of effort between teams. 

In this series I will add brief notes of various technique mentioned above if applied correctly at right time with right people there is high chance that projects are delivered on time with high quality which results in happy customers and highly motivated team after all at end of day people should be happy.
